1. What are the advantages of using Spring Boot?
2. What are the Spring Boot key components?
3. Why Spring Boot over Spring?
4. What is the starter dependency of the Spring boot module?
5. How does Spring Boot works?
6. What does the @SpringBootApplication annotation do internally?
7. What is the purpose of using @ComponentScan in the class files?
8. How does a spring boot application get started?
9. What are starter dependencies?
10. What is Spring Initializer?
11. What is Spring Boot CLI and what are its benefits?
12. What are the most common Spring Boot CLI commands?
13. What Are the Basic Annotations that Spring Boot Offers?
14. What is Spring Boot dependency management?
15. Can we create a non-web application in Spring Boot?
16. Is it possible to change the port of the embedded Tomcat server in Spring Boot?
17. What is the default port of tomcat in spring boot?
18. Can we override or replace the Embedded tomcat server in Spring Boot?
19. Can we disable the default web server in the Spring boot application?
20. How to disable a specific auto-configuration class?
21. Explain @RestController annotation in Sprint boot?
22. What is the difference between @RestController and @Controller in Spring Boot?
23. Describe the flow of HTTPS requests through the Spring Boot application?
24. What is the difference between RequestMapping and GetMapping?
25. What is the use of Profiles in spring boot?
26. What is Spring Actuator? What are its advantages?
27. How to enable Actuator in Spring boot application?
28. What are the actuator-provided endpoints used for monitoring the Spring boot application?
29. How to get the list of all the beans in your Spring boot application?
30. How to check the environment properties in your Spring boot application?
31. How to enable debugging log in the spring boot application?
32. Where do we define properties in the Spring Boot application?
33. What is dependency Injection?
34. What is an IOC container?


Q1. What Is Spring Boot and What Are Its Main Features?
Q2. What Are the Differences Between Spring and Spring Boot?
Q3. How Can We Set Up a Spring Boot Application With Maven?
Q4. What Is Spring Initializr?
Q5. What Spring Boot Starters Are Available Out There?
Q6. How to Disable a Specific Auto-Configuration?
Q7. How to Register a Custom Auto-Configuration?
Q8. How to Tell an Auto-Configuration to Back Away When a Bean Exists?
Q9. How to Deploy Spring Boot Web Applications as Jar and War Files?
Q10. How to Use Spring Boot for Command-Line Applications?
Q11. What Are Possible Sources of External Configuration?
Q12. What Does It Mean That Spring Boot Supports Relaxed Binding?
Q13. What Is Spring Boot DevTools Used For?
Q14. How to Write Integration Tests?
Q15. What Is Spring Boot Actuator Used For?
Q16. Which Is Better to Configure a Spring Boot Project — Properties or YAML?
Q17. What Basic Annotations Does Spring Boot Offer?
Q18. How to Change the Default Port in Spring Boot?
Q19. Which Embedded Servers Does Spring Boot Support, and How to Change the Default?
Q20. Why Do We Need Spring Profiles?


1) What is Spring Boot?
2) What are the advantages of Spring Boot?
3) What are the features of Spring Boot?
4) How to create Spring Boot application using Maven?
5) How to create Spring Boot project using Spring Initializer?
6) How to create Spring Boot project using boot CLI?
7) How to create simple Spring Boot application?
8) What are the Spring Boot Annotations?
9) What is Spring Boot dependency management?
10) What are the Spring Boot properties?
11) What are the Spring Boot Starters?
12) What is Spring Boot Actuator?
13) What is thymeleaf?
14) How to use thymeleaf?
15) How to connect Spring Boot to the database using JPA?
16) How to connect Spring Boot application to database using JDBC?
17) What is @RestController annotation in Spring Boot?
18) What is @RequestMapping annotation in Spring Boot?
19) How to create Spring Boot application using Spring Starter Project Wizard?
20) Spring Vs Spring Boot?


Q1. Spring vs Spring Boot
Q2. What is Spring Boot and mention the need for it?
Q3. Mention the advantages of Spring Boot
Q4. Mention a few features of Spring Boot.
Q5. Explain how to create a Spring Boot application using Maven.
Q6. Mention the possible sources of external configuration.
Q7. Can you explain what happens in the background when a Spring Boot Application is “Run as Java Application”?
Q8. What are the Spring Boot starters and what are available the starters?
Q9. Explain Spring Actuator and its advantages.
Q10. What is Spring Boot dependency management?
Q11. Mention the minimum requirements for a Spring boot System.
Q12. Explain what is thymeleaf and how to use thymeleaf?
Q13. Can we change the port of the embedded Tomcat server in Spring boot?
Q14. What is the need for Spring Boot DevTools?
Q15. Mention the steps to create a Spring Boot project using Spring  Initializer.
Q16. Mention the steps to connect Spring Boot application to a database using JDBC.
Q17. How to enable HTTP/2 support in Spring Boot?
Q18.  What are the @RequestMapping  and @RestController annotation in Spring Boot used for?
Q19. What is Spring Boot CLI and how to execute the Spring Boot project using boot CLI?
Q20. Mention the differences between JPA and Hibernate.
Q21. How can we create a custom endpoint in Spring Boot Actuator?
Q22. Explain Spring Data.
Q23. What do you understand by auto-configuration in Spring Boot and how to disable the auto-configuration?
Q24. What are the differences between @SpringBootApplication and @EnableAutoConfiguration annotation?
Q25. What are the steps to deploy Spring Boot web applications as JAR and WAR files?
Q.26 Can you give an example for ReadOnly as true in Transaction management?
Q27. Can you explain how to deploy to a different server with Spring Boot?
Q28: What is the best way to expose custom application configuration with Spring Boot?
Q29. Can we create a non-web application in Spring Boot?
Q 30. What are the steps to connect an external database like MySQL or Oracle?
Q31. Mention the advantages of the YAML file than Properties file and the different ways to load YAML file in Spring boot.
Q32. How is Hibernate chosen as the default implementation for JPA without any configuration?
Q33. What do you understand by Spring Data REST?
Q34. What is the difference between RequestMapping and GetMapping?
Q35. In which layer, should the boundary of a transaction start?
Q36. How does path=”sample”, collectionResourceRel=”sample” work with Spring Data Rest?
Q37. Explain how to register a custom auto-configuration.
Q38. How do you Configure Log4j for logging?
Q39. Mention the differences between WAR and embedded containers
Q40. What do you think is the need for Profiles?
Q41. What are the steps to add a custom JS code with Spring Boot?
Q42. How to instruct an auto-configuration to back off when a bean exists?
Q43. Why is Spring Data REST not recommended in real-world applications?
Q44. What is the error you see if  H2 is not in the classpath?
Q45. What is the way to use profiles to configure the environment-specific configuration with Spring Boot?
Q46. Mention the dependencies needed to start up a JPA Application and connect to in-memory database H2 with Spring Boot?
Q47. What do you understand by Spring Boot supports relaxed binding?
Q48.  Where is the database connection information specified and how does it automatically connect to H2?
Q49. What is the name of the default H2 database configured by Spring Boot?
Q50. Do you think, you can use jetty instead of tomcat in spring-boot-starter-web?



1.  What is Spring Boot?
2. How to create spring-boot project in eclipse?
3. How to deploy spring boot application in tomcat?
4. What is the difference between spring and spring boot?
5. What is actuator in spring boot?
6. How to change port in spring boot?
7. How to install spring boot in eclipse?
8. How to create war file in spring boot?
9. What is JPA in spring boot?
10. How to save image in database using spring boot?
11. What is auto configuration in spring boot?
12. How to change port number in spring boot?
13. How to resolve whitelabel error page in spring boot application?
14. How to fetch data from database in spring boot?
15. What is response entity in spring boot?
16. How to use logger in spring boot?
17. What is bootstrapping in spring boot?
18. Spring boot introduced in which year?
19. How to create jar file in spring boot?
20. How to handle exceptions in spring boot?
21. What is dependency injection in spring boot?
22. How to store image in MongoDB using spring boot?
23. Which is the ui web framework that is built to use spring boot?
24. How to configure hibernate in spring boot?
25. Why spring boot is used for microservices?
26. Mention the advantages of Spring Boot.
27. Explain Spring Actuator and its advantages.
28. Explain what is thyme leaf and how to use thymeleaf?
29. What is the need for Spring Boot DevTools?
30. Can we change the port of the embedded Tomcat server in Spring boot?
31. Mention the steps to connect Spring Boot application to a database using JDBC
32. What are the @RequestMapping and @RestController annotation in Spring Boot used for?
33. How can we create a custom endpoint in Spring Boot Actuator?
34) What do you understand  by auto-configuration in Spring Boot and how to disable the auto-configuration?
35. Can you give an example for ReadOnly as true in Transaction management?
36. Mention the advantages of the YAML file than Properties file and the different ways to load  
37. What do you understand by Spring Data REST?
38. How do you Configure Log4j for logging?
39. What do you think is the need for Profiles?
40. What are the steps to add a custom JS code with Spring Boot?
41. What is the name of the default H2 database configured by Spring Boot?
42. How to call servlet in spring boot?
43. what is the HTTP methods that can be implemented in spring boot rest service?
44. How to debug spring boot application in eclipse?
45. How to insert data in mysql using spring boot?
46. How to create a login page in spring boot?
47. What is the main class in spring boot?
48. How to use crud repository in spring boot?
49. How to run spring-boot jar from the command line?
50. What is Spring Boot CLI and how to execute the Spring Boot project using boot CLI?
51. How to ignore null values in JSON response spring boot?
52. what is the rest controller in spring boot?
53. How to handle 404 error in spring boot?
54. How to do pagination in spring boot?
55. What are spring boot annotations?
56. Which is the spring boot latest version?
How to check the environment properties in your Spring boot application?
How to enable debugging log in the spring boot application?
Where do we define properties in the Spring Boot application?
What is dependency Injection?
What is an IOC container?
What are the basic Annotations that spring boot offers?
What is spring Boot dependency Management? 
Can we create a non-web application in spring boot?
Is it possible to change the port of embedded Tomcat server in spring boot?
What is the default port of the tomcat server in Spring Boot?
Can we override or replace the embedded tomcat server in spring boot?
Can we disable the default web server in the spring boot application?
How can we disable the auto-configuration class?
Explain @Restcontroller annotation in spring boot?
What is the difference between @RestController and @Controller in Spring Boot?
Describe the flow of HTTPS request through the spring boot app?
What is the difference between RequestMapping and GetMapping?
What is the use of profiles in spring boot?
What is Spring Actuator? What are its advantages?
How to enable Actuator in spring boot application?
What are the actuator-provided endpoints used for monitoring the spring boot application?
How to get the list of all the beans in your spring boot application?
What is Spring Cloud?
How Do You Override A Spring Boot Project’s Default Properties?
What is the Role Of Actuator In Spring Boot?
How Is Spring Security Implemented In A Spring Boot Application?
Which Embedded Containers Are Supported By Spring Boot?
Where Do We Use WebMVC Test Annotation?
How to Configure Spring Boot Application Logging?
What is the Minimum Java version needed for Spring Boot?
What is Thymeleaf?
How to use thymeleaf?
How to Use Spring Boot for Command-Line Applications?
How Can You Change the Default Port in Spring Boot?
Explain what happens in the background when a Spring Boot Application is “Run as Java Application”?
What are the differences between JPA and Hibernate?
What do you understand by auto-configuration in Spring Boot and how to disable the auto-configuration?
LEAVE A REPLY




What is Spring Boot?
What are advantages of Spring Boot?
Which build tool have you used to develop Spring Boot Application?
What is JavaConfig?
How to reload my changes on Spring Boot without having to restart server?
What is Actuator in Spring Boot?
How to implement JWT authentication for Spring Boot Application?
How to deploy Spring Boot application as a WAR?
What is Docker? How to deploy Spring Boot Applications to Docker?
How to disable Actuator endpoint security in Spring Boot?
How to run Spring boot application to custom port?
What is ELK stack?How to use it with Spring Boot?
Have you written Test cases using Spring Boot?
What is YAML?
How to implement security for Spring boot application?
Have you integrated Spring Boot and ActiveMQ?
Have you integrated Spring Boot and Apache Kafka?
How to implement Pagination and Sorting with Spring Boot?
What is Swagger? Have you implemented it using Spring Boot?
What is Spring Profiles? How do you implement it using Spring Boot?
What is Spring Batch? How do you implement it using Spring Boot?
What is FreeMarker Template? How do you implement it using Spring Boot?
How to implement Exception Handling using Spring Boot?
What is caching? Have you used any caching framework with Spring Boot?
Have you exposed a SOAP webservice endpoint using Spring Boot?
How did you perform database operations using Spring Boot?
How to develop a full stack application using Spring Boot and Angular?
How to upload a file using Spring?
How to implement interceptors with Spring Boot?
Which all starter maven dependencies have you used?
What is CSRF attack? How to enable CSRF protection against it?
How to use Form Login Authentication using Spring Boot?
When will you use WebSockets? How to implement it using Spring Boot?
What is AOP? How to use it with Spring Boot?
What is Apache Kafka? How to integrate it with Spring Boot?
How can we monitor all the Spring Boot Microservices?
Have you used any Spring Cloud Components with Spring Boot?
How to deploy Spring Boot Application to Pivotal Cloud Foundry(PCF)?
How to deploy Spring Boot + MySQL Application to Pivotal Cloud Foundry(PCF)?
How to deploy Spring Boot + RabbitMQ Application to Pivotal Cloud Foundry(PCF)?
What is JWT ? How to implement it using Spring Boot Security?
How to implement distributed logging for microservices?
What is Hashicorp Valut? How to use it with microservices?

Q1. What is the Spring Boot?
Q2 What are the differences between Spring and Spring Boot?
Q3. What are the advantages of Spring Boot?
Q4. What are the different Spring Boot Components?
Q5. What is Spring Boot Starters?
Q6. What Spring Boot starters are available out there?
Q7. What is Auto-Configuration in Spring Boot?
Q8. What is Spring Boot CLI?
Q9. How to register a custom auto-configuration?
Q10. Can we use Spring Boot for non-Spring application?
Q11. What are the different options for creating the Spring Boot application
Q12. What is the Spring Boot Initilizr?
Q13. What are the advantages of Spring Boot Initializr?
Q14. How can I reload my Spring Boot changes without restarting the server?
Q15. How can we override default properties in Spring Boot?
Q16. What are the embedded containers supported by Spring Boot?
Q17. What is the Spring Boot Actuator?
Q18. How can we create a custom endpoint in Spring Boot Actuator?
Q19. What is a shutdown in the actuator?
Q20. How to run Spring Boot application to custom port?
Q21. What logging support provided by Spring Boot? How can we control logging level in Spring Boot?
Q22. How to implement security for Spring boot application?
Q23. How to configure database using Spring Boot?
Q24. How can we use Jetty instead of the tomcat in our web application?
Q25. Why do we need spring-boot-maven-plugin?
Q26. How to disable specific auto-configuration in spring boot?
Q27. What is the use of YAML in Spring Boot?
Q28. What is new in Spring Boot 2.0?
Q29. What is @SpringBootApplication annotation?
Q30. How to include custom static content in Spring Boot application (e.g custom JS code)?
Q31. How to use a profile with Spring Boot?
Q32. How to set the active profile in Spring Boot?
Q33. How to generate a WAR file with Spring Boot?
Q34. How to disable the web server configuration in your Spring Boot application?
Q35. How to configure and enable SSL for your Spring Boot application?
Q36. Can we create a Non-web application in Spring Boot?
Q37. How the ApplicationContext created by Spring Boot?
Q38. How can we externalize SpringApplication configuration?
Q39. How to enable HTTP Response Compression in Spring Boot?
Q40. What is Spring Boot Admin?
Q41. Can we configure Spring Boot to use multiple data sources?
Q42. What is application.properties file in Spring Boot?
Q43. How to enable HTTP/2 support in Spring Boot?
Q44. What is the use of starter POM in our Spring Boot application?
Q45. How to access a value defined in the application.properties file in Spring Boot?
Q46. What is relaxed binding in Spring Boot?
Q47. How to set up Spring Boot application using maven?




1) Explain the term 'Spring Boot'.
2) Mention some advantages of Spring Boot
3) How to create a Spring Boot application using Spring Initializer?
4) Name the features of using Spring Boot
5) Explain different phases of RAD model.
6) What is RAD model?
7) What are the commands to run and stop Spring Boot executable jar file?
8) How can you change JDK version in Spring Boot?
9) What is the process that you need to follow to run Spring Boot application on the custom port?
10) What is Spring Boot starter? How is it useful?
11) Can you use Spring Boot with applications which are not using Spring?
12) What is the name of the configuration file which you can use in Spring Boot?
13) What is DevTools in Spring Boot?
14) What are the important features of Reactjs?
15) What are the essential components of Spring Boot
16) How are properties defined? Where?
17) What is spring-boot-starter-parent?
18) How to enable HTTP/2 supports in Spring Boot?
19) What is a Spring Boot Actuator?
20) What is the command to run Spring Boot application to custom port?
21) How can you access a value defined in the application? What is properties file in Spring Boot?
22) What is the primary difference between Spring and Spring Boot?
23) Explain Spring Boot Admin
24) How can you connect Spring Boot to the database using JPA?
25) Explain @RestController annotation in Spring Boot?
26) Define the term Spring Initializer
27) Explain Spring CLI
28) Where can you define properties in Spring Boot application?
29) What are embedded containers support by Spring
1) Tomcat
2) Jetty
3) Undertow.
30) Explain thymeleaf in Spring Boot
31) What are the Spring Boot properties?
32)  What is the main difference between JPA and Hibernate?
33) What is a shutdown in the actuator?
34) Is it possible to replace or override the Embedded Tomcat server in Spring Boot?
35) Can you disable the default web server in the Spring Boot application?
36) How do you Add, Filter to an application? There are three methods to add filter to Spring Boot application:
37) What are Spring Boot Starter Projects?
38) What is @pathVariable?
39) What is Swagger2?
40) What are different environments for enterprise application development?
41) What are the major differences between RequestMapping and GetMapping?
42) How can you define properties in Spring Boot?
43) How to create a Spring Boot project using Maven?
44) What is the use of profiles in Spring Boot?
45) How to change tomcat HTTP port?
46) What is LiveReload in Spring Boot?
47) What are the major benefits of spring Externalized Configuration?
48) What do you mean by hot-swapping in Spring Boot?
49) Explain Auto-Configuration in Spring Boot.
50) What is the meaning of Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP)?
51) How to enable logging in Spring Boot?
52) Explain overriding default properties in Spring Boot application.
53) Explain Docker in Spring Boot.
54) Define ELK stack.
The ELK Stack is made of three open-source products: 1) Elasticsearch, 2) Logstash, and 3) Kibana.
55)  How to handle exception in Spring Boot.
56) Explain caching.
57) What is Cross-Site Request Forgery attack?
58) Define apache freemarker.
59) What is mean by spring batch?
60) Explain Apache Kafka.
61) Explain CORS in Spring Boot?
62) Explain different types of dependency injection.
63) What are the advantages of micro service?
64) What is the default package in Spring Boot?
65) Explain the difference between an embedded container and a WAR.
66) Explain Spring MVC.
67) What is the use of <set> tag?
68)  What do you mean by aspect?
69) What is join point in Spring Boot?
70) How can you set active profile in Spring Boot?
71) Is excluding package without using the basePackages filter is possible? How?
72) List out benefits of using the JavaConfig method.
73) Explain steps to deploy an application on virtual machine.
74) List out some of the Spring Boot Starters.




1) What does the @SpringBootApplication annotation do internally?
2) How to exclude any package without using the basePackages filter?
3) How to disable a specific auto-configuration class?
4) What is Spring Actuator? What are its advantages?
5) How to enable/disable the Actuator? 
6) What is the Spring Initializer?
7) What is a shutdown in the actuator?
8) Is this possible to change the port of Embedded Tomcat server in Spring boot?
9) Can we override or replace the Embedded Tomcat server in Spring Boot?
10) Can we disable the default web server in the Spring Boot application?